update!: Add map/navigation recommendations (#2827)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/maps.md

cover: maps.webp
global:
 - [randomize-element, "table tbody"]
---
<small>Protects against the following threat(s):</small>

- [:material-account-cash: Surveillance Capitalism](basics/common-threats.md#surveillance-as-a-business-model){ .pg-brown }

Use a **map and navigation app** that doesn't build an advertising profile based on your searches and location history. Instead of using Google Maps, Apple Maps, or Waze, we recommend these privacy-respecting alternatives.

## Recommended Applications

The recommendations here either do not collect any user data or at least do not collect personally identifying information (PII) based on each service's privacy policy. There is **no guarantee** that these privacy policies are honored.

| App | Map Data | Offline Maps | Data Collection | License |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| [Organic Maps](#organic-maps) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | None | Free (Apache 2.0) |
| [OsmAnd](#osmand) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | None | Free (GNU GPL 3.0) |

> | [Magic Earth](#magic-earth) | [OpenStreetMap](https://https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | Anonymized[^1] | Proprietary |

Reviewer: Magic Earth link is broken

> | [Magic Earth](#magic-earth) | [OpenStreetMap](https://https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | Anonymized[^1] | Proprietary |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Magic Earth](#magic-earth) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | Anonymized[^1] | Proprietary |
```

> | [Magic Earth](#magic-earth) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | Anonymized[^1] | Proprietary |
> | [HERE WeGo](#here-wego) | Proprietary | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | Anonymized[^2] | Proprietary |
> 
> [^1]: Location data is used to provider real-time traffic data, but cannot be linked to a specific user.
> [^2]: Some opt-in features such as live traffic data require sending user data such as location and speed to HERE. This data is collected in a way that does not identify the user personally according to the [privacy policy](https://legal.here.com/en-gb/privacy/here-wego-here-application-or-here-maps-privacy-supplement-updated)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[:octicons-eye-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/legal/privacy-policy/){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/intro){ .card-link title=Documentation}
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/osmandapp){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.osmand)
- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/osmand-maps-travel-navigate/id934850257)

</details>

</div>

Compared to Organic Maps, OsmAnd has more [features](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OsmAnd#Features) but is also more complicated to use. One noteworthy feature is the ability to overlay or underlay external map data, such as satellite images from Microsoft or [traffic data](https://web.archive.org/web/20211203063453/http://themm.net/public/osmand_traffic) from Google, although the latter is ignored by the automatic route planning. OsmAnd also has an optional integration of streetview images provided by [Mapillary](https://www.mapillary.com/).

> ### Magic Earth
> 
> <div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>
> 
> ![Magic Earth logo](assets/img/maps/magic-earth.png){ align=right }
> 
> **Magic Earth** is a proprietary app based on OpenStreetMap data. Its features include turn-by-turn navigation, live traffic information for route planning, speed camera warnings, public transport info, 3D and satellite maps, and the ability to download maps for offline use. The app may send position data to Magic Earth's traffic provider to provide real-time traffic information, but the data is anonymized and only stored for 5 minutes.
> 
> [:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.magicearth.com/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
> [:octicons-eye-16:](https://www.magicearth.com/privacy/){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
> [:octicons-info-16:](https://www.magicearth.com/faq-en/){ .card-link title=Documentation}
> 
> <details class="downloads" markdown>
> <summary>Downloads</summary>
> 
> - [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.generalmagic.magicearth&hl=en)
> - [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/magic-earth-gps-navigation/id1007331679?mt=8)
> 
> </details>
> 
> </div>
> 
> This app is useful for users who require real-time traffic info, which is available [in several countries](https://www.magicearth.com/feature-availablity/#hd_traffic).
> 
> Magic Earth is free of cost for all end-users but the developer also has a paid SDK for business partners. Because of this business model, they have decided against open sourcing the app.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### HERE WeGo

Author: I think this comment is useful: https://discuss.privacyguides.net/t/add-navigation-gps-tools/13669/45

> ### HERE WeGo

Author: Is this something I need to change from my side or can you amend the PR to only include these two?

> ### HERE WeGo

Reviewer 2: > Is this something I need to change from my side or can you amend the PR to only include these two?

Just waiting for OsmAnd to be approved on the forum first.

> ### HERE WeGo
> 
> <div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>
> 
> ![HERE WeGo logo](assets/img/maps/here.png){ align=right }
> 
> **HERE WeGo** is a proprietary app made by HERE Technologies, a company owned by a consortium of multiple German automakers as well as Intel. The app's features include turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling and driving as well as using public transport, live traffic information, speed camera warnings, terrain and satellite maps, the ability to download maps for offline use, and shop info such as opening times or Yelp reviews.
> 
> The app can send your location data in order to provide real-time traffic information, but this is an opt-in feature and the data is anonymized (not linked to your personal identity). 
> 
> [:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.here.com/products/wego){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
> [:octicons-eye-16:](https://legal.here.com/en-gb/privacy/here-wego-here-application-or-here-maps-privacy-supplement-updated){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
> 
> <details class="downloads" markdown>
> <summary>Downloads</summary>
> 
> - [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.here.app.maps&pli=1)
> - [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/here-wego-maps-navigation/id955837609)
> - [:octicons-browser-16: Web](https://wego.here.com/)
> 
> </details>
> 
> </div>
> 
> Unlike the previous recommendations, HERE WeGo uses its own proprietary map data and is therefore a good option for users who live in regions where OpenStreetMap is insufficient. In fact, HERE's map data is used by several car manufacturers for their built-in navigation systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HERE WeGo

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![HERE WeGo logo](assets/img/maps/here.png){ align=right }

**HERE WeGo** is a proprietary app made by HERE Technologies, a company owned by a consortium of multiple German automakers as well as Intel. The app's features include turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling and driving as well as using public transport, live traffic information, speed camera warnings, terrain and satellite maps, the ability to download maps for offline use, and shop info such as opening times or Yelp reviews.

The app can send your location data in order to provide real-time traffic information, but this is an opt-in feature and the data is anonymized (not linked to your personal identity). 

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.here.com/products/wego){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://legal.here.com/en-gb/privacy/here-wego-here-application-or-here-maps-privacy-supplement-updated){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.here.app.maps&pli=1)
- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/here-wego-maps-navigation/id955837609)
- [:octicons-browser-16: Web](https://wego.here.com/)

</details>

</div>

Unlike the previous recommendations, HERE WeGo uses its own proprietary map data and is therefore a good option for users who live in regions where OpenStreetMap is insufficient. In fact, HERE's map data is used by several car manufacturers for their built-in navigation systems.
```

</details>

</div>

Please note that Organic Maps is a simple, basic app that lacks certain features many users might expect, such as satellite images, streetview images, and real-time traffic information.

## OsmAnd

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![OsmAnd logo](assets/img/maps/osmand.svg){ align=right }

**OsmAnd** is an offline map and navigation application based on OpenStreetMap, offering turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling, driving, as well as public transport. It is open-source and does not collect any user data. Some features are paid if you download the app from the Play Store or Apple App Store, but a completely free (though unofficial) version is available on F-Droid.

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://osmand.net){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/legal/privacy-policy){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/intro){ .card-link title="Documentation" }
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/osmandapp){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

> - [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.osmand)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.osmand)
- [:simple-android: Android](https://osmand.net/docs/versions/free-versions)
```
Per @I-I-IT's first suggestion

- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/osmand-maps-travel-navigate/id934850257)

</details>

</div>

> Compared to Organic Maps, OsmAnd has more [features](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OsmAnd#Features) but is also more complicated to use. One noteworthy feature is the ability to overlay or underlay external map data, such as satellite images from Microsoft or [traffic data](https://web.archive.org/web/20211203063453/http://themm.net/public/osmand_traffic) from Google, although the latter is ignored by the automatic route planning. OsmAnd also has an optional integration of streetview images provided by [Mapillary](https://www.mapillary.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compared to Organic Maps, OsmAnd has more [features](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OsmAnd#Features) but is also more complicated to use. One noteworthy feature is the ability to overlay or underlay external map data, such as satellite images from Microsoft or [traffic data](https://web.archive.org/web/20211203063453/http://themm.net/public/osmand_traffic) from Google, although the latter is ignored by the automatic route planning. OsmAnd also has an optional integration of streetview images provided by [Mapillary](https://www.mapillary.com).
```

## Criteria

**Please note we are not affiliated with any of the projects we recommend.** In addition to [our standard criteria](about/criteria.md), we have developed a clear set of requirements to allow us to provide objective recommendations. We suggest you familiarize yourself with this list before choosing to use a project, and conduct your own research to ensure it's the right choice for you.

### Minimum Requirements

- Must not collect PII per their privacy policy.
- Must not require users to create an account with them.
- Must not require users to share location data. If the user opts in to sharing their location, this data must be anonymized.

> - Maps can be downloaded and the app used entirely offline.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Must retain core functionality when offline and allow users to download maps for offline use.
```
This is a suggestion to reword this sentence to conform to this [writing guideline](https://www.privacyguides.org/en/meta/writing-style/#use-must-for-requirements). Feel free to reword as you see fit.

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://organicmaps.app){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://organicmaps.app/privacy){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps)
- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=app.organicmaps)
- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/organic-maps/id1567437057)
- [:simple-linux: Linux](https://flathub.org/apps/app.organicmaps.desktop)

</details>

</div>

Please note that Organic Maps is a simple, basic app that lacks certain features many users might expect, such as satellite images, streetview images, and real-time traffic information.

## OsmAnd

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![OsmAnd logo](assets/img/maps/osmand.svg){ align=right }

> **OsmAnd** is an offline map and navigation application based on OpenStreetMap, offering turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling, driving, as well as public transport. It is open-source and does not collect any user data. Some features are paid if you download the app from the Play Store or Apple App Store, but a completely free (though unofficial) version is available on F-Droid.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**OsmAnd** is an offline map and navigation application based on OpenStreetMap, offering turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling, driving, as well as public transport. It is open-source and does not collect any user data.
```
After thinking about this for a little while, I think it would wise to not endorse the unofficial, albeit fully-featured, F-Droid version for two reasons.

1. End users may encounter a lack of support when it comes to this particular version. They may have to reach out to the maintainer(s) of the F-Droid build or the F-Droid developers themselves if any of the OsmAnd maintainers can't help them with their issue due to them using a version that's not officially supported. Here's an example of this: https://github.com/osmandapp/OsmAnd/issues/20597#issuecomment-2288208892.
2. People using the unofficial F-Droid version may have to wait longer for bug fixes than those using the Play Store version. For version 4.9.10, the Google Play version of OsmAnd (free) and OsmAnd+ (paid) were updated on 2024/12/12 and 2024/12/14, respectively. Meanwhile, the F-Droid build was updated on 2024/12/29 (_more than 2 weeks later_) for the same version.

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://osmand.net){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/legal/privacy-policy){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/intro){ .card-link title="Documentation" }
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/osmandapp){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.osmand)
- [:simple-android: Android](https://osmand.net/docs/versions/free-versions)
- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/osmand-maps-travel-navigate/id934850257)

</details>

</div>

> Compared to Organic Maps, OsmAnd has more [features](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OsmAnd#Features) but is also more complicated to use. One noteworthy feature is the ability to overlay or underlay external map data, such as satellite images from Microsoft or [traffic data](https://web.archive.org/web/20211203063453/http://themm.net/public/osmand_traffic) from Google, although the latter is ignored by the automatic route planning. OsmAnd also has an optional integration of streetview images provided by [Mapillary](https://www.mapillary.com).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Compared to Organic Maps, OsmAnd has more [features](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OsmAnd#Features) but is also more complicated to use. One noteworthy feature is the ability to overlay or underlay external map data, such as satellite images from Microsoft or [traffic data](https://web.archive.org/web/20211203063453/http://themm.net/public/osmand_traffic) from Google, although the latter is ignored by the automatic route planning. OsmAnd also has an optional integration of streetview images provided by [Mapillary](https://mapillary.com).
```

## Criteria

**Please note we are not affiliated with any of the projects we recommend.** In addition to [our standard criteria](about/criteria.md), we have developed a clear set of requirements to allow us to provide objective recommendations. We suggest you familiarize yourself with this list before choosing to use a project, and conduct your own research to ensure it's the right choice for you.

### Minimum Requirements

- Must not collect PII per their privacy policy.
- Must not require users to create an account with them.
- Must not require users to share location data. If the user opts in to sharing their location, this data must be anonymized.
- Must retain core functionality when offline and allow users to download maps for offline use.

### Best-Case

Our best-case criteria represents what we would like to see from the perfect project in this category. Our recommendations may not include any or all of this functionality, but those which do may rank higher than others on this page.

- Apps should be open source.
- Should have route planning for public transport.
- Should have real-time traffic information for route planning.

> - Should support advanced features such as detailed shop/POI information and reviews, topographic maps, and satellite and streetview images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Should support advanced features such as detailed shop/point of interest (POI) information and reviews, topographic maps, and satellite and streetview images.
```
This suggestion adds the long form of the abbreviation here since it wasn't explained previously.

---
meta_title: "Recommended Maps and Navigation Apps - Privacy Guides"
title: "Maps and Navigation"
icon: material/map 
description: Privacy-respecting map providers and navigation apps which don't build an advertising profile based on your searches and locations.
cover: maps.webp

> global:
>  - [randomize-element, "table tbody"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
See suggestion for lines 16 to 23

---
<small>Protects against the following threat(s):</small>

- [:material-account-cash: Surveillance Capitalism](basics/common-threats.md#surveillance-as-a-business-model){ .pg-brown }

Use a **map and navigation app** that doesn't build an advertising profile based on your searches and location history. Instead of using Google Maps, Apple Maps, or Waze, we recommend these privacy-respecting alternatives.

> ## Recommended Applications
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

The recommendations here either do not collect any user data or at least do not collect personally identifying information (PII) based on each service's privacy policy. There is **no guarantee** that these privacy policies are honored.

> | App | Map Data | Offline Maps | Data Collection | License |
> |---|---|---|---|---|
> | [Organic Maps](#organic-maps) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | None | Free (Apache 2.0) |
> | [OsmAnd](#osmand) | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/) | :material-check:{ .pg-green } | None | Free (GNU GPL 3.0) |
> 
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
With just two recommendations on this page at this moment, I don't think the table is very useful IMO. We can consider re-adding it if more recommendations are added to this page (like the other pages which include randomized tables).

> ### Organic Maps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Organic Maps
```

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![Organic Maps logo](assets/img/maps/organic-maps.svg){ align=right }

> **Organic Maps** is an open source, community-developed map display and satnav-style navigation app for walkers, drivers, and cyclists. The app offers worldwide offline maps based on OpenStreetMap data, and navigation with privacy - no location tracking, no data collection, and no ads. The app can be used completely offline.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Organic Maps** is an open source, community-developed map display and satnav-style navigation app for walkers, drivers, and cyclists. The app offers worldwide offline maps based on OpenStreetMap data, and navigation with privacy — no location tracking, no data collection, and no ads. The app can be used completely offline.
```

Features include cycling routes, hiking trails and walking paths, turn-by-turn navigation with voice guidance, and public transport route planning (only available in supported regions and cities).

> [:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://organicmaps.app/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
> [:octicons-eye-16:](hhttps://organicmaps.app/privacy/){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://organicmaps.app){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://organicmaps.app/privacy){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
```

[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps)
- [:simple-googleplay: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=app.organicmaps)
- [:simple-appstore: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/organic-maps/id1567437057)
- [:simple-linux: Linux](https://flathub.org/apps/app.organicmaps.desktop)

</details>

</div>

Please note that Organic Maps is a simple, basic app that lacks certain features many users might expect, such as satellite images, streetview images, and real-time traffic information.

> ### OsmAnd

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## OsmAnd
```

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![OsmAnd logo](assets/img/maps/osmand.svg){ align=right }

> **OsmAnd** is an offline map and navigation application based on OpenStreetMap, offering turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling, driving as well as public transport. It is open-source and does not collect any user data. Some features are paid if you download the app from the Play Store or Apple App Store, but a completely free (though unofficial) version is available on F-Droid. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**OsmAnd** is an offline map and navigation application based on OpenStreetMap, offering turn-by-turn navigation for walking, cycling, driving, as well as public transport. It is open-source and does not collect any user data. Some features are paid if you download the app from the Play Store or Apple App Store, but a completely free (though unofficial) version is available on F-Droid.
```

> [:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://osmand.net/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
> [:octicons-eye-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/legal/privacy-policy/){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://osmand.net){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/legal/privacy-policy){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
```

> [:octicons-info-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/intro){ .card-link title=Documentation}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[:octicons-info-16:](https://osmand.net/docs/intro){ .card-link title="Documentation" }
```

## Criteria

**Please note we are not affiliated with any of the projects we recommend.** In addition to [our standard criteria](about/criteria.md), we have developed a clear set of requirements to allow us to provide objective recommendations. We suggest you familiarize yourself with this list before choosing to use a project, and conduct your own research to ensure it's the right choice for you.

### Minimum Requirements

- Must not collect PII per their privacy policy.
- Must not require users to create an account with them.
- Must not require users to share location data. If the user opts in to sharing their location, this data must be anonymized.
- Maps can be downloaded and the app used entirely offline.

### Best-Case

Our best-case criteria represents what we would like to see from the perfect project in this category. Our recommendations may not include any or all of this functionality, but those which do may rank higher than others on this page.

- Apps should be open source.
- Should have route planning for public transport.
- Should have real-time traffic information for route planning.

> - Should have advanced features (that users may expect coming from Google or Apple Maps) such as detailed shop/POI information and reviews, topographic maps, and satellite and streetview images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Should support advanced features such as detailed shop/POI information and reviews, topographic maps, and satellite and streetview images.
```
